
# Gessit

#### URL of hosted application: https://gessit.netlify.app
#### URL of hosted API: https://gessit.up.railway.app

### Description

A forum application which people all over the world can use to 
discuss and talk about different subjects. My goal for this 
application was to increase connectivity and communication around 
the globe.

This application was made as part of the 'Clientside web 
frameworks' course of Avans Hogeschool Breda.


### Case
#### Intro

The case or subject that I chose was the creation of a forum 
application named Gessit. The idea of the application 
was kind of inspired from the quite famous online 
website [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/). I always wanted 
to create a message-based application trough which people 
could communicate with eachother and discuss all kinds of 
topics freely with people all around the world. So this course 
was the perfect opportunity for me to build my dream project.

#### Further Explanation

People visiting my application can create their own account through
a clear and usable user interface. After creating an account a user
is able to login with the registered personal unique username and 
password. A user can then create a so called community, which is 
like a group focussed on one or multiple themes or subjects. A 
community is created by another user and exists of threads which are 
also created by other users. Registered users can become a member 
of a community to participate in all kinds of discussions. They can
then send messages in all existing threads within the community to 
chat with other people in the community. A thread is like a 
textchannel within a community in which users can send messages to 
react to either for example a question or a fun picture. This way 
all people around the world can communicate and have fun with eachother
without the physical distance being a liability. 

### Entities
#### Intro

To accomplish this idea of a application and make it a workable and
user friendly site I thought about and created a total of five different
entities which resemble every single functionality in my application and
so are crucial to accomplish every single task and action executed by
visiting people and registered users alike. I have ofcourse used all
of these entities within my application to make it a usable app. I have
described all of these entities and their corresponding attributes and
datatypes in the below chapter to further explain the internal functioning 
of my app and give more transparency about the different process within
my webapplication.

#### Entities

**User** (the user itself that can send messages, create communities etc.)

- id: ObjectId (“autogenerated” by mongodb)
- joinedCommunities: ObjectId Array (references to the Community entities)
- createdCommunities: ObjectId Array (references to the Community entities)
- followers: ObjectId Array (references to the User entities)
- following: ObjectId Array (references to the User entities)
- roles: Role Array (enum: user/admin)
- username: String
- birthDate: Date
- emailAddress: String
- phoneNumber: String
- password: String
- isActive: Boolean
- registerDate: Date
- image: String

**Community** (the "group" in which Threads are made and in which Messages can be send)

- id: ObjectId (“autogenerated” by mongodb)
- owner: User (User entity)
- members: ObjectId Array (references to the User entities)
- threads: Thread Array (Thread entities)
- themes: Theme Array (Theme entities)
- name: String
- description: String
- ranking: Number
- creationDate: Date
- image: String
- isOpen: Boolean

**Theme** (the theme of a Community)

- id: ObjectId (“autogenerated” by mongodb)
- name: String

**Thread** (a "chat" within a Community where registered Users can send messages)

- id: ObjectId (“autogenerated” by mongodb)
- creator: ObjectId (reference to User entity)
- messages: Message Array (Message entities)
- likes: ObjectId Array (references to User entities)
- title: String
- content: String
- views: Number
- likes: Number
- creationDate: Date
- image: String

**Message** (a message that a user can create and send)

- id: ObjectId (“autogenerated” by mongodb)
- creator: ObjectId (reference to User entity)
- likes: ObjectId Array (references to User entities)
- content: String
- creationDate: Date
- hasLikes: Boolean

#

### Conclusion

All in all I hope this README was of some use to discover the reasoning
and ideas behind this application. I hope that I have shed some more
light on the thoughts and process that I walked through on the road
to completing this application. I for one loved creating this app and
for me it was definitely a useful and fun learning experience! 
